#   Code Book
##  Variables
### setname

This character string designates whether the data came from the test data or
training data. It is has two possible values, "test" or "train".

### subjectid

This is a integer identifying each different subject in the study.

### activity

This character string designates the type of activity being performed when the
data was collected. It has possible values "WALKING", "WALKING\_UPSTAIRS",
"WALKING\_DOWNSTAIRS", "SITTING", "STANDING", "LAYING".

### timebodyaccmeanx

This is the mean of the time doman signal for body acceleration in the x
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccmeany

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body acceleration in the y
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccmeanz

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body acceleration in the z
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccstdx

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body acceleration
in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccstdy

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body acceleration
in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccstdz

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body acceleration
in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### timegravityaccmeanx

This is the mean of the time domain signal for gravity acceleration in the x
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timegravityaccmeany

This is the mean of the time domain signal for gravity acceleration in the y
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timegravityaccmeanz

This is the mean of the time domain signal for gravity acceleration in the z
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timegravityaccstdx

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for gravity
acceleration in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### timegravityaccstdy

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for gravity
acceleration in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### timegravityaccstdz

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for gravity
acceleration in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccjerkmeanx

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body acceleration jerk in the x
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccjerkmeany

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body acceleration jerk in the y
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccjerkmeanz

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body acceleration jerk in the z
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccjerkstdx

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body acceleration
jerk in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccjerkstdy

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body acceleration
jerk in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccjerkstdz

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body acceleration
jerk in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyromeanx

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body angular velocity in the x
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyromeany

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body angular velocity in the y
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyromeanz

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body angular velocity in the z
direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrostdx

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body angular
velocity in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrostdy

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body angular
velocity in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrostdz

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body angular
velocity in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrojerkmeanx

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body angular velocity jerk in
the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrojerkmeany

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body angular velocity jerk in
the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrojerkmeanz

This is the mean of the time domain signal for body angular velocity jerk in
the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrojerkstdx

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body angular
velocity jerk in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrojerkstdy

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body angular
velocity jerk in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrojerkstdz

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal for body angular
velocity jerk in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccmagmean

This is the mean of the time domain signal magnitude for body acceleration. It
is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccmagstd

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal magnitude for body
acceleration. It is a floating point value.

### timegravityaccmagmean

This is the mean of the time domain signal magnitude for gravity acceleration.
It is a floating point value.

### timegravityaccmagstd

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal magnitude for gravity
acceleration. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccjerkmagmean

This is the mean of the time domain signal magnitude for body acceleration
jerk. It is a floating point value.

### timebodyaccjerkmagstd

This is the standard deviation of the time domain signal magnitude for body
acceleration jerk. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyromagmean

This is the mean of the time domain signal magnitude for body angular velocity.
It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyromagstd

This is the mean of the time domain signal magnitude for body angular velocity.
It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrojerkmagmean

This is the mean of the time domain signal magnitude for body angular velocity
jerk. It is a floating point value.

### timebodygyrojerkmagstd

This is the mean of the time domain signal magnitude for body angular velocity
jerk. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmeanx

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration in the x
direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmeany

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration in the y
direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmeanz

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration in the z
direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccstdx

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body
acceleration in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccstdy

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body
acceleration in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccstdz

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body
acceleration in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmeanfreqx

This is the mean frequency of the frequency doman signal for body acceleration
in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmeanfreqy

This is the mean frequency of the frequency doman signal for body acceleration
in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmeanfreqz

This is the mean frequency of the frequency doman signal for body acceleration
in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkmeanx

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration jerk in
the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkmeany

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration jerk in
the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkmeanz

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration jerk in
the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkstdx

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body
acceleration jerk in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkstdy

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body
acceleration jerk in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkstdz

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body
acceleration jerk in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkmeanfreqx

This is the mean frequency of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration
jerk in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkmeanfreqy

This is the mean frequency of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration
jerk in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccjerkmeanfreqz

This is the mean frequency of the frequency domain signal for body acceleration
jerk in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyromeanx

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body angular velocity in
the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyromeany

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body angular velocity in
the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyromeanz

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal for body angular velocity in
the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyrostdx

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body angular
velocity in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyrostdy

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body angular
velocity in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyrostdz

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal for body angular
velocity in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyromeanfreqx

This is the mean frequency of the frequency domain signal for body angular
velocity in the x direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyromeanfreqy

This is the mean frequency of the frequency domain signal for body angular
velocity in the y direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodygyromeanfreqz

This is the mean frequency of the frequency domain signal for body angular
velocity in the z direction. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmagmean

This is the mean of the frequency domain signal magnitude for body
acceleration. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmagstd

This is the standard deviation of the frequency domain signal magnitude for
body acceleration. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodyaccmagmeanfreq

This is the mean frequency of the frequency domain signal magnitude for body
acceleration. It is a floating point value.

### frequencybodybodyaccjerkmagmean

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

### frequencybodybodyaccjerkmagstd

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

### frequencybodybodyaccjerkmagmeanfreq

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

### frequencybodybodygyromagmean

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

### frequencybodybodygyromagstd

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

### frequencybodybodygyromagmeanfreq

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

### frequencybodybodygyrojerkmagmean

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

### frequencybodybodygyrojerkmagstd

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

### frequencybodybodygyrojerkmagmeanfreq

I have no idea what this variable means, and the documentation for the original
data set does not say.

## Transformations applied to the data sets

All values were pulled from the original dataset files. Most column names,
except for setname, subjectid, and activity, were pulled from features.txt.
Data for that data was pulled from train/X\_train.txt and test/X\_test.txt.
Only the columns that specifically mentioned "mean" or "std" were kept. All
others were dropped. The "setname" column was set to "test" or "train" for rows
based on the files from which they were pulled. The subjectid variable was set
based on values from the test/subject\_test.txt and train/subject\_train.txt
files. Finally, the activity column was set based on the test/y\_test.txt and
train/y\_train.txt, and labeled based on the information in the
activity\_labels.txt file.

Column names were reformatted to be more descriptive and to replace some
unwanted characters.
